hello it's Ruby and today I am going to
be telling you all of the books that I
read in 2019 this is a video that I do
every single year I did at 2015 16 17 18
and now we've got 2019 I read some
really great books this year so I'm
really excited to tell you the books
that I read and give you some
recommendations I am gonna run through
them quite quickly because I did read a
hundred books this year and so I'm
conscious at this video we're very very
long if I talk about each book so to
give some context I'm at university and
in October I changed my university
courses so I did a year of studying
philosophy in theology and then now I've
transferred to English literature so
since October I have had SAP reading for
English literature so keep in mind that
some of these books are Sat taxes okay
so I use Goodreads to track all of my
reading I love Goodreads I've been on
good reasons what 2013 if you want to
follow me on there then my username is
just Ruby Grange a few such Ruby
Grainger might I can't should come up
and I do read a mix I've got some
classics in here I've got some
nonfiction I've got some contemporary
some why a fiction middle grade so keep
that in mind so I started the year by
reading election by Tom perotta which
was fantastic
so so funny it said in high school but
it is like slightly more adult next I
read the red ribbon by Lucy adlington
this is going to hurt by Adam K which is
hilarious the bear by Clare Cameron
Drive by Daniel H pink which is
basically a study of motivation and it's
a nonfiction book which is so so so good
one of the best non-fiction books I read
this year opposing hate speech by
Anthony Cortese eyepencil by Leonard II
read religion and sexuality in
cross-cultural perspective educated a
memoir by Tara Westerville which was
remarkable one of the best books I read
this year elders by Ryan McIlvain it's
narrated by a Mormon missionary the
sociology of religion by grace Devi
the cost of discipleship by Dietrich
Bonhoeffer which have been on my TBR for
such a long time I'm so so so happy to
finally read it the Guernsey literary
and potato peel pie society by Marianne
Shaffer and Annie barrows next I read
this this was a paper I do know it was
on Goodreads so I added it bullying
around racism religion and culture it
was this a hundred and thirty-four page
documentation and study and I did read
that cover to cover sapiens by evil Noah
Harare a brief history of humankind that
is brilliant the motivation myth by Jeff
Hayden my absolute darling by Gabriel
Talent on the paper and heart society by
Lucy Perry that's Lucy the reader on
YouTube and Instagram if you follow her
if you don't I would recommend it she
makes a lot of content for people who
really like reading classics Lucy sent
me a preview coffee and I wrote a review
for the book on Goodreads and it ended
up being featured on on the inside cover
as like a quotation from somebody about
the book and literally I felt so honored
a safe route of Lucy though that was a
really really great book an absolutely
remarkable thing by Hank green the
London Eye mystery which is middle grade
but in a ventilated TVR for such long
time so I did decide to finally read it
flowers in bone cages by Sophie Blin
Lincoln in the body by George Saunders
gather the daughters by Jenny Melamed
the midnight watch by David Dyer
everything I never told you by Celeste
egg if you haven't read this book you
have to read it a danger to herself and
others by ELISA Shimon the children act
by Ian McEwan mice by Gordon Reiss
amusing ourselves to death by Neil
postman probably one of the best
non-fiction books I've ever read
basically it examines how our culture
and discourse has shifted and changed as
visual culture television has become
much more prominent and basically how
this affects every single area of our
life without realizing it it's so
fascinating the Gospel according to The
Simpsons by Mark L Pinsky interpreting
the Bible and the Constitution like
Silverson library and I didn't know how
I could go without reading it inside by
Alex : which I've got to say I don't
even remember reading so I don't know
how good I don't know how
I thought I was no I remember it was
quite good
it's basically about a therapist and
like the boundaries of professionalism
within therapy because she happens
across this man on a ski trail who
attempted suicide and then she feels
this emotional responsibility but
because she's a therapist she's not sure
what her professional boundaries like
she kind of jobs between times like with
earlier clients etc and so drawing those
parallels it's very good the church and
the Charter Christianity and the
Forgotten roots of the Magna Carta by
Thomas Andrew the woman in black by
Susan Hill lullaby by Leila Slimani
elsewhere by Gabriel Devon on chesil
beach by Ian McEwan history of the rain
by Noelle Williams salt to the sea by
route acept ice a good girls guide to
murder by holly jackson vast why a book
I have ever read vote for Fe by Laura
would rack first Tiffany's by Truman
Capote the English Patient by Michael
and I can't I can never say his name
born to dance by Jordan mutter don't you
know that curled scripts actually
collection of photographs but it's got
tax as well so I did encounter and I did
read it cover-to-cover
fox though by eleanor was a burg alone
orphaned on the ocean it's the true
story of this girl who after the
shipwreck she was floating on this
little dinghy in the ocean for eleven
days it's very short as any like as
under a hundred pages word nerd by Susan
Nielsen again woman I wanted to read for
a very long time and I thought no
greater time than the present is easy to
shy away from middle grade books but
some of them are really good Matilda by
Roald Dahl
I had to reread it this year a harm
scarab schoolgirl by Angela Brazil
nothing tastes as good by Claire
Hennessy the melancholy death of oyster
boy and other stories by Tim Burton a
fantastic book of poetry there are girls
like lions by Col Swenson
oh no added the forward is by course
Lenten but is a collection of Persian
fat chance by Leslie Newman that didn't
really I didn't think up a quiz
fantastic dear of a house in the novel
which is basically written by producers
of the show one of us is lying by
current and colours the rules of seeing
by Jo heat to kill a mockingbird by
harper lee which i decided to
this year from Bad cast by Katy Allender
this is the second book in the bad girls
do die series which is one of my
favorite book series but I never read
the second one because I didn't want to
finish the series so yeah I finally read
the second one I read the third one
first and then the first and I've just
read the second but fantastic series I
really liked it catalyst by Laurie Halse
Anderson this was probably the best book
I read this year I thought it was
remarkable The Maze Runner by James
Dashner an abundance of Katherine's by
John Green went girls by Laurie Halse
Anderson I really loved Laurie Halse
Anderson I need to read more of her work
the Communist Manifesto by Karl Marx and
Frederick angles the epic of gilgamesh
by anonymous I also read the book of
Genesis quite a few times because we
studied that in English hell's like
white elephants by Ernest Hemingway The
Odyssey by Homer but I read the
translation by Emily Wilson Beowulf by
Seamus Heaney a little princess by
Frances Hodgson Burnett a history of
Western philosophy by Bertrand Russell
this is my second time reading this book
but it didn't disappoint it's such an
interesting and complete overview of so
many of the key concepts in Western
philosophy I would really recommend it
just to kind of just for awareness of
the depth and like the richness of our
philosophy the Handmaid's Tale by
Margaret Atwood the layers of Marie de
France Harry Potter and the Deathly
Hallows Sir Gawain and the Green Knight
the Institut by Stephen King Berenice by
Edgar Allen Poe multiple choice by Janet
Tashjian that was great I really liked
multiple choice here in the yard by
Christopher Marlowe believer oxic by JJ
Johnson the power by Naomi alderman
reasons to be happy by Katrina Kittel
and mixed feelings about this book I
liked elements of it the girl keeps this
list of reasons to be happy at least she
used to you and since reading this book
I've started doing that tear and it's
actually such a really like mindful
good way to be grateful and reflect on
gratitude Paradise Lost by John Milton
and the ocean was our sky by Pat
kissing doorknobs by Terry Spencer
hasser Orinoco and then to go along with
that I decided to eat the myth of the
noble savage bite ah Alison and I wasn't
planning on reading this cover to cover
but it was really interesting I'm really
good so I decided to I reread The
Winter's Tale by William Shakespeare
Shakespeare School room by Lynn until I
this was so interesting it was how
Shakespeare's Grammar School Education
would have influenced different elements
of his storytelling Frankenstein by Mary
Shelley trolls an unnatural history by
John Linder fathers and sons in
Shakespeare by Fred Trombley tinder by
Sally Gardner a Christmas Carol by
Charles Dickens twas the night shift
before Christmas by Adam Kaye fantastic
fantastic Burke are you watching by
Vincent Ralph
Bertie's Christmas Eve by sake Kew
Gardens by Virginia Woolf and the final
book I read was the Nutcracker by ETA
Hoffmann how gorgeous is this so there
we go
they are the 100 books that I read this
year I did read a few of these books
twice but I didn't fact that him when I
just told you okay usually I only have
five top recommendations but I'm gonna
have to give 11 because I can't narrow
them down so number one the Institute by
Stephen King which is quite a long book
but it really didn't take it didn't take
me very long to read at all because it's
just so so graphic I've never as I said
I've only read carried by Stephen King
but that was years and years ago pick
this up because just the premise seemed
very interesting children with talaq
talaq Kinesis or telepathy skills are
taken away to this institute where their
powers are harnessed this is going to
have by Adam Kay just because it was
hilarious
it's basically stories of a junior
doctor in five years and it's so funny
but it's also really important because
it highlights some of the really
important key issues in the NHS things
that are wrong with the NHS and just
inspire so much respect for doctors and
nurses and what the people who work in
the NHS do for us educated by our
Westover which couldn't not make this
nurse that book was remarkable a true
story autobiography Westover had a very
difficult childhood about how she used
education harnessing education she was
able to
become that and wow the children act by
Ian McEwan which I loved
I do love in McEwan he's one of my
favorite writers so there is a boy who
is a Jehovah's Witness
and he's under 18 within this
denomination of Christianity blood
transfusions are thought of thought to
be simple and so his parents say that
they don't want him to have the blood
transfusion and the child to also says
you know I don't want to have the blood
transfusion because of my faith can see
it's basically following the court case
of this because the doctors want him to
have the blood transfusion because he's
under 18 so under the children are they
need to do what's best for him and
raises some really important moral
questions and also social legal
questions about like what it means to be
a child which is something I'm very
interested in as a construct a danger to
herself and others which was why a book
but really really clever is this girl
who finds herself in this teen mental
institution and she doesn't know why
she's that catalyst which has I already
Serbs on the bass books I read it just
really it captures parasha in school
very very well I'm using ourselves to
death by Neil postman again I already
mentioned this a good girls guide to
murder this girl embarks to a EP key
project on this murder which happened
near her house and she basically is
convinced that the person accused wasn't
the person who committed the murder so
it's a thriller but I also love how the
character is just so independent does
the story from her moral she's very
intelligent very motivated and just such
an inspiring character of history of the
rain which I relieved
earlier this year so it's this 19 year
old whose father has died and she's
using his books in his library to
understand him as a person and get to
know him I think that's such a lovely
idea because we are shaped so much by
the books we read and the really cool
thing is that she infuses all of these
literary references into the book I also
loved Emily Wilson's translation at the
Odyssey I'd never read The Odyssey
before it was such an accessible
translation she does the whole thing on
the rounded pentameter and she's
bringing the perspective of women to do
the odyssey i mean that's it's very cool
like especially if you look at some of
her interviews and finally number 11
dad
daughters which is about a cult and I
love books about cults I think it's
impossible not to love books which are
written about gods mainly from the
perspective of the children within the
core to the girls and how the system
starts to take away like their girl code
and their innocence and again like that
boundary between childhood and adulthood
which I spoke about in relation to the
children and has explored here very very
corporate oh I'm sorry about the dogs
they were on that last review I'm sorry
it's atmospheric this is what it's like
in my house all the time I need to go
down in silence and now so thank you so
much for watching this video I hope that
you enjoyed watching and I hope that you
have a productive week with lots and
lots and lots of reading thank you for
watching and yeah I will see you in my
next video bye